
PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES:
Assist in the development of the annual operating and capital budget.
Analyze financial reporting and prepare cost reporting as required.
Review monthly financial reports and provide explanations of variances. Determine schedules and cost variances, analyze results, forecast future status, and prepare management reports to document findings and recommendations.
Collect, analyze, and summarize account information and trends by applying intermediate skills and knowledge of accounting and reporting requirements using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
Identify and analyze trends and recommend improvements in processes.
Maintain information and review financial transactions by creating and/or monitoring electronic files and/or accounting documents.
Assist departments and other customers by providing procedural/financial information and/or other information and guidance with automated or manual systems.
Work with department managers to identify cost saving opportunities in their areas.
Ensure transactions are processed in accordance with Capital Metro’s policies, applicable laws and regulations, and sound business practices.
Assist with special accounting projects.
Support Capital Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Safety Management Systems (SMS) process by following safety and security policies, considering safety in every action and reporting safety and security concerns.
Perform other duties as required and/or assigned.
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:
Bachelor’s degree in Accounting, Finance, or related field. Related experience may be substituted on a year for year basis up to four (4) years.
One (1) year of progressively responsible experience in a financial analysis role involving research, financial analyses, reporting, operating and capital budgets, cost of service studies, financial modeling, and policy analysis.
Two (2) years of experience working in Windows environment (Word, Excel) utilizing financial application software.
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES:
Must possess required knowledge, skills, abilities, and demonstrate, with or without reasonable accommodations, that the essential functions of the job can be performed.
Skill in using a variety of financial software applications, spreadsheet modeling and presentation software, Microsoft Office in a Window Environment.
Skill in designing financial models and developing financial forecasts.
Knowledge of financial reporting concepts and preferred business practices.
Ability to prepare comprehensive reports and recommendations.
Skill in designing spreadsheets and utilizing word processing and database software.
Skill in effective verbal and written communication.
Skill in analyzing and interpreting financial records.
Skill in processing large volumes of numerical data.
Effective organizational skills.
Ability to make decisions in an expedient manner.
Must be customer service oriented.
Ability to establish and maintain good working relationships with other Capital Metro employees and the public.